\==[doc]      [2] [\bullet(packed)[\link[\1][\2]]]
\==[program]  [3]
    [\tablerow[\1 \version[\2]] [\release[\2]]
        [\link[https://archives.eyrie.org/software/\3.tar.gz][tar.gz]
        (\link[https://archives.eyrie.org/software/\3.tar.gz.asc]
              [PGP signature])]
        [\link[https://archives.eyrie.org/software/\3.tar.xz][tar.xz]
        (\link[https://archives.eyrie.org/software/\3.tar.xz.asc]
              [PGP signature])]]
\==[download] [3]
    [\1 \version[\2]\break
     \link[https://archives.eyrie.org/software/\3.tar.gz][tar.gz]
     (\link[https://archives.eyrie.org/software/\3.tar.gz.asc]
           [signature])\break
     \link[https://archives.eyrie.org/software/\3.tar.xz][tar.xz]
     (\link[https://archives.eyrie.org/software/\3.tar.xz.asc]
           [signature])\break
    Released \release[\2]]

\heading[C TAP Harness][software]

\h1[C TAP Harness]

\div(sidebar)[
    \h2[Download]

    \download[C TAP Harness][c-tap-harness]
        [devel/c-tap-harness-\version[c-tap-harness]]

    \link[https://archives.eyrie.org/software/ARCHIVE/c-tap-harness/]
         [Archive]

    \h2[Documentation]

    \link[readme.html][General overview] \break
    \link[news.html][Change summary] \break
    \link[writing.html][Writing TAP tests] \break
    \link[runtests.html][runtests manual page]

    \h2[Development]

    \link[todo.html][To-do list] \break
    \link[https://github.com/rra/c-tap-harness]
         [GitHub] \break
    \link[https://github.com/rra/c-tap-harness/issues]
         [Bug tracker] \break
    \link[https://git.eyrie.org/?p=devel/c-tap-harness.git]
         [Git repository] \break
    \link[https://www.openhub.net/p/c-tap-harness]
         [Open HUB code analysis]
]

\h2[Blurb]

C TAP Harness is a pure-C implementation of TAP, the Test Anything
Protocol.  TAP is the text-based protocol used by Perl's test suite.  This
package provides a harness similar to Perl's Test::Harness for running
tests, with some additional features useful for test suites in packages
that use Autoconf and Automake, and C and shell libraries to make writing
TAP-compliant test programs easier.

\h2[Description]

This package started as the runtests program I wrote for INN in 2000 to
serve as the basis for a new test suite using a test protocol similar to
that used for Perl modules.  When I started maintaining additional C
packages, I adopted runtests for the test suite driver of those as well,
resulting in further improvements but also separate copies of the same
program in different distributions.  The C TAP Harness distribution merges
all the various versions into a single code base that all my packages can
pull from.

C TAP Harness provides a full TAP specification driver (apart from a few
possible edge cases) and has additional special features for supporting
builds outside the source directory.  It's mostly useful for packages
using Autoconf and Automake and because it doesn't assume or require Perl.

The runtests program can be built with knowledge of the source and build
directory and pass that knowledge on to test scripts, and will search for
test scripts in both the source and build directory.  This makes it easier
for packages using Autoconf and Automake and supporting out-of-tree builds
to build some test programs, ship others, and run them all regardless of
what tree they're in.  It also makes it easier for test cases to find
their supporting files when they run.

Also included in this package are C and shell libraries that provide
utility functions for writing test scripts that use TAP to report results.
The C library also provides a variety of utility functions useful for test
programs running as part of an Automake-built package: finding test data
files, creating temporary files, reporting output from external programs
running in the background, and similar common problems.

\h2[Requirements]

C TAP Harness requires a C compiler to build.  Any ISO C89 or later C
compiler on a system supporting the Single UNIX Specification, version 3
(SUSv3) should be sufficient.  This should not be a problem on any modern
system.  The test suite and shell library require a Bourne-compatible
shell.  Outside of the test suite, C TAP Harness has no other
prerequisites or requirements.

To run the test suite, you will need Perl plus the Perl module Test::More,
which comes with Perl 5.8 or later.  The following additional Perl modules
will be used by the test suite if present:

\bullet(packed)[Test::Pod]
\bullet(packed)[Test::Spelling]

All are available on CPAN.  Those tests will be skipped if the modules are
not available.

To bootstrap from a Git checkout, or if you change the Automake files and
need to regenerate Makefile.in, you will need Automake 1.11 or later.  For
bootstrap or if you change configure.ac or any of the m4 files it includes
and need to regenerate configure or config.h.in, you will need Autoconf
2.64 or later.  Perl is also required to generate manual pages from a
fresh Git checkout.

\h2[Download]

The distribution:

\table[][
    \program[C TAP Harness][c-tap-harness]
        [devel/c-tap-harness-\version[c-tap-harness]]
]

An \link[https://archives.eyrie.org/software/ARCHIVE/c-tap-harness/]
[archive of older releases] is also available.

C TAP Harness is maintained using the Git version control system.  To
check out the current development tree, see
\link[https://github.com/rra/c-tap-harness][GitHub] or clone:

\pre[    https://git.eyrie.org/git/devel/c-tap-harness.git]

Pull requests on GitHub are welcome.  You can also
\link[https://git.eyrie.org/?p=devel/c-tap-harness.git][browse the current
development source].

\h2[Documentation]

\div(left)[
    \class(first)[User documentation:]

    \doc[readme.html][README]
    \doc[news.html][Change summary]
    \doc[writing.html][Writing TAP tests]
    \doc[runtests.html][runtests manual page]
    \doc[license.html][License and copyright]

    Developer documentation:

    \doc[todo.html][To-do list]
    \doc[https://github.com/rra/c-tap-harness]
        [GitHub]
    \doc[https://github.com/rra/c-tap-harness/issues]
        [Bug tracker]
    \doc[https://www.openhub.net/p/c-tap-harness]
        [Open HUB code analysis]

]

\div(right)[
    \class(first)[API documentation:]

    \doc[bail.html][bail and sysbail]
    \doc[bmalloc.html][bmalloc, bcalloc, brealloc, bstrdup, and bstrndup]
    \doc[breallocarray.html][breallocarray]
    \doc[diag.html][diag and sysdiag]
    \doc[diag_file_add.html][diag_file_add and diag_file_remove]
    \doc[is_int.html][is_bool, is_int, is_double, is_string, and is_hex]
    \doc[ok.html][ok, okv, and ok_block]
    \doc[plan.html][plan and plan_lazy]
    \doc[skip.html][skip and skip_block]
    \doc[skip_all.html][skip_all]
    \doc[test_cleanup_register.html][test_cleanup_register]
    \doc[test_file_path.html][test_file_path and test_file_path_free]
    \doc[test_tmpdir.html][test_tmpdir and test_tmpdir_free]
]

\h2(after)[License]

The C TAP Harness package as a whole is covered by the following copyright
and license:

\block[

    Copyright 2000-2001, 2004, 2006-2016
        Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

    Copyright 2006-2009, 2011-2013
        The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
    a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
    "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
    without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
    distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
    permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
    the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
    included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
    IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
    CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
    TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
    SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

]

Some individual source files are covered by other, compatible licenses.
For complete copyright and license information, see the file
\link[license.html][LICENSE] in the C TAP Harness source distribution.

\signature
