The origins of this package are in the libinn utility library in INN.
Some of the utility and portability functions here are directly inspired
by or based on versions in older versions of INN, and I wrote and rewrote
considerable additional portability code and utility libraries when I took
over INN maintenance.  When I started maintaining other C packages, I
started copying pieces of libinn into those packages and merging it with
other portability and utility code.  Over time, each package gained a
slightly different version of various utility functions, replacements for
missing functions, and Autoconf macros.

The goal of this package is to merge all the various versions of any
portability or utility code that's used in more than one of my packages in
one place.  Then, each package can update to the latest rra-c-util version
before each release and gain from the improvements made for all other
packages.

As well as C portability frameworks, Autoconf macros, and a general C
utility library, this package has also accumulated a considerable
collection of standard tests (for C and Perl packages) and a large library
of test utilities and support functions.  It also includes extensive
support for writing and testing PAM modules, and a portable implementation
of AFS PAGs.

This package uses the infrastructure of C TAP Harness for testing, but is
not the canonical version of `tests/runtests.c`, `tests/tap/basic.[ch]`,
`tests/tap/macros.h`, or `tests/tap/libtap.sh`.  Those files should be
pulled from [C TAP
Harness](https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/c-tap-harness/) instead.
