After years of maintaining a variety of small free software packages, I
found the most tedious part of making a new release was updating the
documentation in multiple locations.  Copyright dates would change,
prerequisites and package descriptions would change, and I had to update
at least the package `README` file and its web pages separately.  The last
straw was when GitHub became popular and I wanted to provide a Markdown
version of `README` as well, avoiding the ugly text rendering on the
GitHub page for a package.

This package uses one metadata directory as its source information and
generates all the various bits of documentation for a package.  This
allows me to make any changes in one place and then just regenerate the
web page, included documentation, and other files to incorporate those
changes.  It also lets me make changes to the templates to improve shared
wording and push that out to every package I maintain during its next
release, without having to remember which changes I wanted to make.

DocKnot was designed and written for my personal needs, and I'm not sure
it will be useful for anyone else.  At the least, the template files are
rather specific to my preferences about how to write package
documentation, and the web page output is in my personal thread language
as opposed to HTML.  I'm not sure if I'll have the time to make it a more
general tool.  But you're certainly welcome to use it if you find it
useful, send pull requests to make it more general, or take ideas from it
for your own purposes.

Currently included in this package are just the App::DocKnot module (which
contains most of the logic), a small docknot driver program, and the
templates I use for my own software.  Over time, it may include more of my
web publishing framework, time permitting.
