This package started as the runtests program I wrote for INN in 2000 to
serve as the basis for a new test suite using a test protocol similar to
that used for Perl modules.  When I started maintaining additional C
packages, I adopted runtests for the test suite driver of those as well,
resulting in further improvements but also separate copies of the same
program in different distributions.  The C TAP Harness distribution merges
all the various versions into a single code base that all my packages can
pull from.

C TAP Harness provides a full TAP specification driver (apart from a few
possible edge cases) and has additional special features for supporting
builds outside the source directory.  It's mostly useful for packages
using Autoconf and Automake and because it doesn't assume or require Perl.

The runtests program can be built with knowledge of the source and build
directory and pass that knowledge on to test scripts, and will search for
test scripts in both the source and build directory.  This makes it easier
for packages using Autoconf and Automake and supporting out-of-tree builds
to build some test programs, ship others, and run them all regardless of
what tree they're in.  It also makes it easier for test cases to find
their supporting files when they run.

Also included in this package are C and shell libraries that provide
utility functions for writing test scripts that use TAP to report results.
The C library also provides a variety of utility functions useful for test
programs running as part of an Automake-built package: finding test data
files, creating temporary files, reporting output from external programs
running in the background, and similar common problems.
